II a sport it's in the game hey
everybody I'm Victor Lugo and i'm here
today to give you an inside look at the
control configuration for EA sports MMA
there are two types of configurations in
EA sports MMA total strike control where
you use the sticks and classic control
where you use the buttons today i'm
going to talk to you about total strike
control in total strike control you'll
be throwing strikes with the right stick
and using the face buttons to grapple
here your basic controls you move your
fighter with the left stick d-pad up
will allow you to show your opponent
respect d-pad down will taunt your
opponent d-pad left or right will allow
you to switch stance now that we
understand that let's talk about stand
up we have four basic right stick
gestures which you can perform to the
left or right clicking the stick to
eleven o'clock and one o'clock will get
you straight swirling the stick from
nine to 12 or three to twelve will get
you hooks moving the stick from five to
eleven or seven to one will get you
uppercuts finally swirling the stick
from three to nine or 93 will get you a
back fist now that you know the basic
gestures let's talk about modifiers you
have four basic modifiers for kicking
blocking body strikes and fake strikes
left trigger is your kick modifier if
you hold on to it and do your four
gestures you will get four different
kicks a jab motion will get you leg
kicks a hook motion will get you head
kicks the uppercut motion will get you
teeps and finally the back fist motion
will get you the spin kick the right
trigger will allow you to block while
holding block you can flick the right
stick to parry left or right you can
also click the left stick while blocking
to duck and slip punches holding the
kick modifier and performing a parry
will allow you to catch a kick the right
bumper is your body shot modifier you
can perform a jab hook and uppercut to
the body if you hold the body modifier
and the kick modifier you can throw a
roundhouse or spinning back kick to the
body the left bumper is your fake
modifier pulling the left bumper and
performing punch gestures will get you
fake punches you can also hold the left
bumper in combination with the kick
modifier to fake kicks some moves can
only be triggered by dashing dashing is
done by flicking the left stick you can
dash forwards and backwards as well as
left and right dashing forward then
throwing a jab will get you a Superman
punch dashing left or right and throwing
a hook will get you
overhand and dashing forward and
throwing the leg kick will get you a
flying knee here's a tip the flick you
do to duck or slip a punch will also
count as a dash so you can duck or slip
a strike and go directly into a dash
move that's all of the standing strikes
now let's talk about grappling while
standing you can perform a clinch by
pressing why by default you will go to
the muy Thai clinch but if you hold down
on the left stick and press why you'll
go for a double under clinch a will get
you a double leg takedown dashing left
or right then pressing a will get you a
single leg takedown B is your
all-purpose button for denying a
takedown or clinch X is rarely used
while standing but if you press it as
soon as your opponent starts to take
down you can catch them in the
guillotine if you find yourself in
clinch you have similar options to
standing the left stick will allow you
to push your opponent a jab motion will
get you a punch to the head I hope
motion will get you an elbow to the head
you can use your modifiers to throw
knees body shots fakes and to block and
Perry you'll get different strikes
depending on what position you are in so
make sure you try striking combinations
from every clinch position grappling
from the clinch is similar to stand up
pressing a will get you a takedown
holding up on the left stick and
pressing a as the dominant fighter and
muy Thai clinch will allow you to jump
guard be will deny transitions and
takedowns X will get you a submission
but you can only do this from the
dominant position and muy Thai clinch
why has several functions in the clinch
holding up on the left stick and
pressing Y will allow you to transition
to muy Thai clinch down in Y will allow
you to transition to double under clinch
holding the lustick away from your
opponent and pressing Y will allow you
to escape from the clinch the ground
game is similar to the clinch you can
throw jab and hook motions to perform
different strikes from different
positions you can also use your for
modifiers to throw knees body shots
fakes and to block and perry if you want
to catch a strike you need to hold both
triggers and perry a strike to
transition on the ground simply press a
if you hold up on the right stick and
press a you will go for a major
transition pressing left or right while
transitioning will allow you to pick the
side you want to transition to be will
once again allow you to deny all
grappling advances X will allow you to
attempt to submission holding up and
pressing X will allow you to get an
alternate submission whenever available
and
general the primary submission is an arm
lock or leg lock and the secondary
submission is a joke why allows you to
posture up stand up or give up your back
depending on what position you're in
holding up on the left stick and
pressing Y will allow you to bypass
posturing up and stand straight up if
you would like to flap to open guard you
can do so by dashing away from your
opponent and pressing B from open guard
you can use the left stick to move
towards your opponent you can perform a
scissor takedown by pressing a you can
block or pair your opponent strikes by
holding the right trigger and flicking
the right stick and you can press Y to
stand up if you find yourself standing
while your opponent is an open guard you
can do a few different things you can
kick your opponent in the legs by
throwing any strike you can perform a
diving punch by dashing forward and
throwing a jab you can go to guard
stacked by pressing a or you can go to a
postured up guard position by holding
the left stick towards your opponent and
pressing a finally you can deny a
scissor takedown by pressing B thanks
everyone I'm Victor logo and that's
about it for total strike control